DOCS-2969 Document Collabora official application (#1293)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/Apps/Collabora.md

---
title: "Collabora App"
weight: 35
---

{{< toc >}}

The SCALE **Apps** catalogue now includes [Collabora](https://nextcloud.com/collaboraonline/) from the developers of [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/).

> With Collabora, you can host your online Office Suite at home.

Reviewer: Why Office Suite instead of office suite? I cannot find a reference to this in the Chia documentation so I don't know why this is init-capped.

{{< hint info >}}
To integrate Collabora correctly, you must have a [Nextcloud account with Collabora added](https://nextcloud.com/collaboraonline/).
{{< /hint >}}

## Install the Collabora App

> Click on the Collabora app's **Install** button in the **Available Applications** list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion to remove possessive
Click on the Collabora app **Install** button in the **Available Applications** list.
```

Name your App and click **Next**. In this example, the name is *collabora1*.

![Collabora1](/images/SCALE/Collabora1.png "Install Collabora")

Select a **Timezone** and, if you wish, enter a custom **Username** and **Password**. 

You can also add extra parameters to your container as you see fit. See The [LibreOffice GitHub Parameters](https://github.com/LibreOffice/online/blob/master/loolwsd.xml.in) page for more.

> Once you've selected your container settings, choose a **Certificate** and click **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion to make more active present tense voice
After you select your container settings, choose a **Certificate** and click **Next**.
```

![Collabora2](/images/SCALE/Collabora2.png "Configure Collabora Container")

Enter **Environmental Variables** as needed, then click **Next**.

![Collabora3](/images/SCALE/Collabora3.png "Configure Collabora Environmental Variables")

Choose a node port to use for Collabora (we recommend the default), then click **Next**.

![Collabora4](/images/SCALE/Collabora4.png "Configure Collabora Networking")

Configure extra host path volumes for Collabora as you see fit, then click **Next**.

![Collabora5](/images/SCALE/Collabora5.png "Configure Collabora Extra Host Path Volumes")

> Confirm your Collabora container's options and click **Save** to complete setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion to remove possessive
Confirm your Collabora container options and click **Save** to complete setup.
```

![Collabora6](/images/SCALE/Collabora6.png "Confirm Collabora Options")

> After a few minutes, the Collabora container will display as **ACTIVE**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion to remove 'will'
After a few minutes, the Collabora container displays as **ACTIVE**. 
```

![Collabora7](/images/SCALE/Collabora7.png "Collabora Active")

> Once it does, you can click **Web Portal** to access the Admin console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion change to After
After it does, you can click **Web Portal** to access the admin console.
```
